[docs] Monitoring docs (#3778)
celo-org/celo-monorepo: packages/docs/operations-manual/monitoring.md

Useful messages to record or set up log-based metrics on:

- `msg="Validator Election Results"`: When the last block of any epoch (`number`) has been agreed, `elected` shows whether the validator was selected in the validator election.

- `msg="Elected but didn't sign block"`: This validator was elected but did not have its signature included in the block given by `number` (in fact, in the child's parent seal). This block could count towards downtime if 12 successive blocks are missed.

### Metrics

Celo Blockchain inherits [go-ethereum's metrics](https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/wiki/Metrics-and-Monitoring) system, but additional Celo-specific metrics have been added.

Metrics reporting is enabled with the `--metrics` flag.

Pull-based metrics are available using the ` --pprof` flag. This enables the `pprof` debugging HTTP server, by default on `http://localhost:6060`. The `--pprofaddr` and `--pprofport` options can be used to configure the interface and port respectively. If the node is running inside a Docker container, you will need to set `--pprofaddr 0.0.0.0`, then on your Docker command line add `-p 6060:localhost:6060`.

> {% hint style="warning" %}

Reviewer: This doesn't seem to be rendering correctly.  https://github.com/celo-org/celo-monorepo/blob/aa7b89381f16a7cdc91f5dafdd3200c28d71e6e7/packages/docs/operations-manual/monitoring.md#metrics

Be sure never to expose the `pprof` service to the public internet.
{% endhint %}

[Prometheus](https://prometheus.io) format metrics are available at `http://localhost:6060/debug/metrics/prometheus`.

[ExpVar](https://golang.org/pkg/expvar/) format metrics are available at `http://localhost:6060/debug/metrics`.  

Support for pushing metrics to [InfluxDB](https://www.influxdata.com/products/influxdb-overview/) is available via `--metrics.influxdb` and related flags. This works without the `pprof` server.

Note that metric name separators differ between these endpoints.

All metrics are soft-state and are cleared when the process is restarted.

### Memory metrics

Memory metrics derived from [mstats](https://godoc.org/github.com/go-graphite/carbonzipper/mstats):

- `system_memory_held`: Gauge of virtual address space allocated by the Celo Blockchain process, measured in bytes.

> - `system_memory_used`: Gauge of Memory in use by the Celo Blockchain process, measured as bytes of allocated heap objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `system_memory_used`: Gauge of memory in use by the Celo Blockchain process, measured as bytes of allocated heap objects.
```

- `consensus_istanbul_core_consensus_count`: Count and timer for succesful completions of consensus (Use `quantile` tag to find percentiles: `0.5`, `0.75`, `0.95`, `0.99`, `0.999`)

### Management APIs

Celo blockchain inherits and extends go-ethereum's Javascript console, exposing [management APIs](https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/rpc/server) and [web3 DApp APIs](https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/JavaScript-API).

Connect a client using a variant of the `attach` command line option:

```bash
geth attach --datadir DATADIR
geth attach ipc:PATH/TO/geth.ipc
geth attach http://localhost:8545
geth attach ws://localhost:8546
```

<!--
Celo adds specific functions around consensus:

```bash

```
-->

## Monitoring Attestation Service

### Logging

The Attestation Service provides JSON-format structured logs.

### Metrics

It also exposes the following Prometheus format metrics at `/metrics`:

- `attestation_requests_total`: Counter for the number of attestation requests.

- `attestation_requests_already_sent`: Counter for the number of attestation requests that were received but dropped because the local database records that they have already been completed.

> - `attestationRequestsWrongIssuer`: Counter for the number of attestation requests that were received but dropped because they specified the incorrect validator.

Reviewer: Seems like there is a mixture of camel case and underscores for the metric names.  Just checking to see if that's correct.

> - `attestationRequestsWOIncompleteAttestation`: Counter for the number of attestation requests that were received but when querying the blockchain no matching incomplete attestation could be found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `attestationRequestsWOIncompleteAttestation`: Counter for the number of received attestation requests that has no corresponding incomplete attestation on the blockchain.
```

> - `attestationRequestsValid`: Counter for the number of requests received that are for the correct issuer and an incomplete attestation exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `attestationRequestsValid`: Counter for the number of attestation requests received that are for the correct issuer and a corresponding incomplete attestation exists on the blockchain.
```

- `attestationRequestsAttestationErrors`: Counter for the number of requests for which producing the attestation failed. This could be due to phone number or salt that does not match the hash, or the attestation was recorded fewer than 4 blocks ago.

> - `attestationRequestsUnableToServe`: Counter for the number of requests that could not be served because no SMS provider was configured for the phone number in the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `attestationRequestsUnableToServe`: Counter for the number of attestation requests that could not be served because no SMS provider was configured for the phone number in the request.
```

> - `attestationRequestsSentSms`: Counter for the number of SMS succesfully sent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `attestationRequestsSentSms`: Counter for the number of SMSes succesfully sent.
```

> - `attestationRequestsFailedToSendSms`: Counter for the number of SMS that failed to send.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `attestationRequestsFailedToSendSms`: Counter for the number of SMSes that failed to send.
```
